AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a metabolic enzyme that can be activated by nutrient stress or genetic mutations. Missense mutations in the regulatory subunit, PRKAG2, activate AMPK and cause left ventricular hypertrophy, glycogen accumulation, and ventricular pre-excitation. Using human iPS cell models combined with three-dimensional cardiac microtissues, we show that activating PRKAG2 mutations increase microtissue twitch force by enhancing myocyte survival. Integrating RNA sequencing with metabolomics, PRKAG2 mutations that activate AMPK remodeled global metabolism by regulating RNA transcripts to favor glycogen storage and oxidative metabolism instead of glycolysis. As in patients with PRKAG2 cardiomyopathy, iPS cell and mouse models are protected from cardiac fibrosis, and we define a crosstalk between AMPK and post-transcriptional regulation of TGFbeta isoform signaling that has implications in fibrotic forms of cardiomyopathy. Our results establish critical connections among metabolic sensing, myocyte survival, and TGFbeta signaling.
Tree shrews have a close relationship to primates and have many advantages over rodents in biomedical research. However, the lack of gene manipulation methods has hindered the wider use of this animal. Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) have been successfully expanded in culture to permit sophisticated gene editing in the mouse and rat. Here, we describe a culture system for the long-term expansion of tree shrew SSCs without the loss of stem cell properties. In our study, thymus cell antigen 1 was used to enrich tree shrew SSCs. RNA-sequencing analysis revealed that the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway was active in undifferentiated SSCs, but was downregulated upon the initiation of SSC differentiation. Exposure of tree shrew primary SSCs to recombinant Wnt3a protein during the initial passages of culture enhanced the survival of SSCs. Use of tree shrew Sertoli cells, but not mouse embryonic fibroblasts, as feeder was found to be necessary for tree shrew SSC proliferation, leading to a robust cell expansion and long-term culture. The expanded tree shrew SSCs were transfected with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-expressing lentiviral vectors. After transplantation into sterilized adult male tree shrew's testes, the EGFP-tagged SSCs were able to restore spermatogenesis and successfully generate transgenic offspring. Moreover, these SSCs were suitable for the CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene modification. The development of a culture system to expand tree shrew SSCs in combination with a gene editing approach paves the way for precise genome manipulation using the tree shrew.Cell Research advance online publication 23 December 2016; doi:10.1038/cr.2016.156.
AIMS: Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are implicated in various biological processes and human diseases. Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD). We explored the potential functions of lncRNAs in DN. METHODS: We established a mouse model of DN and compared lncRNA expression patterns between DN model and db/m control mouse kidney tissues using microarray analysis. lncRNA function was predicted by gene ontology enrichment and KEGG pathway analyses of lncRNAs-coexpressed mRNAs. Quantitative reverse-transcription PCR was used for validation. Cis- and trans-regulation analyses were conducted to reveal potential relationships between lncRNAs and their target genes. RESULTS: In DN, 311 lncRNAs were dysregulated. LncRNA-coexpressed mRNAs were mainly targeted to golgi apparatus (ontology: cellular component), catalytic activity (ontology: molecular function), and mitotic nuclear division (ontology: biological process), and were mostly enriched in glutathione metabolism signaling. One hundred forty-seven lncRNAs were regarded as cis-regulatory. Several groups of lncRNAs may participate in biological pathways related to DN via trans-regulation of protein-coding genes. CONCLUSION: Hundreds of lncRNAs are dysregulated in DN. These lncRNAs might be involved in the pathogenesis of DN by modulating multiple molecular pathways. Our findings provide potential candidate biomarkers for predicting or diagnosing DN.
Lifeguard is an integral transmembrane protein that modulates FasL-mediated apoptosis by interfering with the activation of caspase 8. It is evolutionarily conserved, with homologues present in plants, nematodes, zebra fish, frog, chicken, mouse, monkey, and human. The Lifeguard homologue in Drosophila, CG3814, contains the Bax inhibitor-1 family motif of unknown function. Downregulation of Lifeguard disrupts cellular homeostasis and disease by sensitizing neurons to FasL-mediated apoptosis. We used bioinformatic analyses to identify CG3814, a putative homologue of Lifeguard, and knocked down CG3814/LFG expression under the control of the Dopa decarboxylase (Ddc-Gal4) transgene in Drosophila melanogaster neurons to investigate whether it possesses neuroprotective activity. Knockdown of CG3814/LFG in Ddc-Gal4-expressing neurons resulted in a shortened lifespan and impaired locomotor ability, phenotypes that are strongly associated with the degeneration and loss of dopaminergic neurons. Lifeguard interacts with anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins and possibly pro-apoptotic proteins to exert its neuroprotective function. The co-expression of Buffy, the sole anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 gene family member in Drosophila, and CG3814/LFG by stable inducible RNA interference, suppresses the shortened lifespan and the premature age-dependent loss in climbing ability. Suppression of CG3814/LFG in the Drosophila eye reduces the number of ommatidia and increases disruption of the ommatidial array. Overexpression of Buffy, along with the knockdown of CG3814/LFG, counteracts the eye phenotypes. Knockdown of CG3814/LFG in Ddc-Gal4-expressing neurons in Drosophila diminishes its neuroprotective ability and results in a shortened lifespan and loss of climbing ability, phenotypes that are improved upon overexpression of the pro-survival Buffy.
BACKGROUND: Colitis-associated cancer (CAC) is caused by chronic intestinal inflammation and often results from refractory inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Stress response proteins Cirp and heat shock protein A4 are involved in the refractory clinical course and development of CAC. RNA-binding motif protein 3 (RBM3) is induced in response to various stresses and is upregulated in several cancers. However, the role of RBM3 in CAC is unclear. METHODS: We assessed RBM3 expression and function in 263 human intestinal mucosa samples from patients with IBD and in Rbm3-deficient (Rbm3) mice. RESULTS: Expression of RBM3 was correlated with the expression of stress response proteins Cirp, heat shock protein A4, and HSP27 in the colonic mucosa of patients with IBD. Significant correlation was observed between the expression of RBM3 and that of Bcl-xL or stem cell markers. RBM3 expression increased and significantly correlated with R-spondin expression in the colonic mucosa of patients with refractory IBD, a condition associated with increased cancer risk, and RBM3 was overexpressed in human CACs. In the murine CAC model, Rbm3 deficiency decreased R-spondin and Bcl-xL expression and increased apoptotic cell number in the colonic mucosa, leading to reduced tumor multiplicity. Transplantation of wild-type and Rbm3 bone marrow did not alter tumor burden, indicating the importance of RBM3 in epithelial cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicated that RBM3 was required for efficient inflammatory carcinogenesis in the murine CAC model and suggested that RBM3 could be a predictive biomarker of CAC risk and a new therapeutic target for cancer prevention in patients with IBD.
Maternal diabetes mellitus induces an increased risk of congenital heart defects (CHD), however, the exact mechanisms are still not fully illustrated. In this study, diabetic pregnant C57BL/6 mice were induced by injection of streptozotocin before mating. Compared with the control normal mice, diabetic pregnant mice displayed significant changes of the exosomal miRNA contents in the blood, as revealed by RNA-seq analysis. Multiple of these miRNAs were found involved in cardiac development regulation. Moreover, fluorescence labeled exosomes and gold nanoparticles could cross the placenta barrier and infiltrated into the embryonic organs/tissues, including the heart, during embryonic development. Injection of diabetic maternal exosomes strikingly increased the risk of CHD in the normal recipient pregnant mice. Taken together, we could draw the conclusion that maternal exosomes in diabetes could cross the maternal-fetal barrier and contribute to the cardiac development deficiency possibly via miRNAs, providing new insights in CHD prevention and treatment.
Shock wave treatment (SWT) was shown to induce regeneration of ischaemic myocardium via Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3). The antimicrobial peptide LL37 gets released by mechanical stress and is known to form complexes with nucleic acids thus activating Toll-like receptors. We suggested that SWT in the acute setting prevents from the development of heart failure via RNA/protein release. Myocardial infarction in mice was induced followed by subsequent SWT. Heart function was assessed 4 weeks later via transthoracic echocardiography and pressure-volume measurements. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were treated with SWT in the presence of RNase and proteinase and analysed for proliferation, tube formation and LL37 expression. RNA release and uptake after SWT was evaluated. We found significantly improved cardiac function after SWT. SWT resulted in significantly higher numbers of capillaries and arterioles and less left ventricular fibrosis. Supernatants of treated cells activated TLR3 reporter cells. Analysis of the supernatant revealed increased RNA levels. The effect could not be abolished by pre-treatment of the supernatant with RNase, but only by a sequential digestion with proteinase and RNase hinting strongly towards the involvement of RNA/protein complexes. Indeed, LL37 expression as well as cellular RNA uptake were significantly increased after SWT. We show for the first time that SWT prevents from left ventricular remodelling and cardiac dysfunction via RNA/protein complex release and subsequent induction of angiogenesis. It might therefore develop a potent regenerative treatment alternative for ischaemic heart disease.
BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE: Diet-related health issues such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disorders are known to have a major inflammatory component. However, the exact pathways linking diet-induced changes e.g. hyperlipidemia, and the ensuing inflammation have remained elusive so far. MAIN RESULTS: We identified biological processes related to innate immunity and oxidative stress as prime response pathways in livers of Ldlr-/- mice on Western-type diet using RNA sequencing and in silico functional analyses of transcriptome data. The observed changes were independent of the presence of microbiota and thus indicative of a role for sterile triggers. We further show that malondialdehyde (MDA) epitopes, products of lipid peroxidation and markers for enhanced oxidative stress, are detectable in hepatic inflammation predominantly on dying cells and stimulate cytokine secretion as well as leukocyte recruitment in vitro and in vivo. MDA-induced cytokine secretion in vitro was dependent on the presence of scavenger receptors CD36 and MSR1. Moreover, in vivo neutralization of endogenously generated MDA epitopes by intravenous injection of a specific MDA antibody results in decreased hepatic inflammation in Ldlr-/- mice on Western-type diet. CONCLUSIONS: Accumulation of MDA epitopes plays a major role during diet-induced hepatic inflammation and can be ameliorated by administration of an anti-MDA antibody. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The Enterobacteriaceae family members, including the infamous Yersinia pestis, the causative agent of plague, have a highly conserved interbacterial signaling system that is mediated by the autoinducer-2 (AI-2) quorum-sensing molecule. The AI-2 system is implicated in regulating various bacterial virulence genes in diverse environmental niches. Deletion of the gene encoding the synthetic enzyme for the AI-2 substrate, luxS, leads to either no significant change or, paradoxically, an increase in in vivo bacterial virulence. We showed that deletion of the rbsA and lsrA genes, components of ABC transport systems that interact with AI-2, synergistically disrupted AI-2 signaling patterns and resulted in a more-than-50-fold decrease in Y. pestis strain CO92 virulence in a stringent pneumonic plague mouse model. Deletion of luxS or lsrK (encoding AI-2 kinase) from the DeltarbsA DeltalsrA background strain or complementation of the DeltarbsA DeltalsrA mutant with the corresponding gene(s) reverted the virulence phenotype to that of the wild-type Y. pestis CO92. Furthermore, the administration of synthetic AI-2 in mice infected with the DeltarbsA DeltalsrA DeltaluxS mutant strain attenuated this triple mutant to a virulence phenotype similar to that of the DeltarbsA DeltalsrA strain in a pneumonic plague model. Conversely, the administration of AI-2 to mice infected with the DeltarbsA DeltalsrA DeltaluxS DeltalsrK mutant did not rescue animals from lethality, indicating the importance of the AI-2-LsrK axis in regulating bacterial virulence. By performing high-throughput RNA sequencing, the potential role of some AI-2-signaling-regulated genes that modulated bacterial virulence was determined. We anticipate that the characterization of AI-2 signaling in Y. pestis will lead to reexamination of AI-2 systems in other pathogens and that AI-2 signaling may represent a broad-spectrum therapeutic target to combat antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which represent a global crisis of the 21st century. IMPORTANCEYersinia pestis is the bacterial agent that causes the highly fatal disease plague. The organism represents a significant concern because of its potential use as a bioterror agent, beyond the several thousand naturally occurring human infection cases occurring globally each year. While there has been development of effective antibiotics, the narrow therapeutic window and challenges posed by the existence of antibiotic-resistant strains represent serious concerns. We sought to identify novel virulence factors that could potentially be incorporated into an attenuated vaccine platform or be targeted by novel therapeutics. We show here that a highly conserved quorum-sensing system, autoinducer-2, significantly affected the virulence of Y. pestis in a mouse model of pneumonic plague. We also identified steps in autoinducer-2 signaling which had confounded previous studies and demonstrated the potential for intervention in the virulence mechanism(s) of autoinducer-2. Our findings may have an impact on bacterial pathogenesis research in many other organisms and could result in identifying potential broad-spectrum therapeutic targets to combat antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which represent a global crisis of the 21st century.
OBJECTIVES: Prostate cancer is one of the most frequent malignancies in men, worldwide, although its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Long non-coding RNAs participate in development of human cancers. In this invetsigation, we aimed to study the roles of lincRNA-p21 in development of human prostate cancer. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Expression of lincRNA-p21 was assessed by real-time PCR in cell lines and in human tissues. Lentivirus carrying sh-lincRNA-p21, lincRNA-p21 or control constructs were used to determine their effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis. A mouse xenograft model was employed to explore the functions of lincRNA-p21 on cancer cell population growth in vivo. Relationships between p53 downstream genes and lincRNA-p21 levels were explored by real-time PCR, western blotting and chromatin immunoprecipitation. RESULTS: LincRNA-p21 was found to be down-regulated in human prostate cancer, and low levels of lincRNA-p21 correlated with high disease stage and prediction of poor survival. We further showed that lincRNA-p21 inhibited prostate cancer cell proliferation and colony formation in vitro and reduced rate of prostate cancer cell population growth in vivo. Study of mechanisms involved revealed that lincRNA-p21 promoted apoptosis and induced expression of p53 downstream genes by regulating p53 binding to their promoters. Finally, we showed that expression of p53 downstream genes was reduced in the malignant prostate tissues, which correlated with lincRNA-p21 level. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicated that lincRNA-p21 inhibited development of human prostate cancer partly by regulating p53 downstream gene expression and partly by apoptotic activation.
Cerebellar damage and granular and Purkinje cell loss in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) highlight a critical involvement of the cerebellum during symptomatic progression of the disease. In this project, global proteomic alterations in the cerebellum of brain from the two most prevalent subtypes (MM1 and VV2) of sCJD were studied. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) coupled mass spectrometric identification revealed 40 proteins in MM1 and 43 proteins in VV2 subtype to be differentially expressed. Of those, 12 proteins showed common differential expression in their expression between two subtypes. Differentially expressed proteins mainly belonged to (i) cell cycle, gene expression and cell death; (ii) cellular stress response/oxidative stress (OS) and (iii) signal transduction and synaptic functions, related molecular functions. We verified 10 differentially expressed proteins at transcriptional and translational level as well. Interestingly, protein deglycase DJ-1 (an antioxidative protein) showed an increase in its messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in both MM1 and VV2 subtypes but protein expression only in VV2 subtype in cerebellum of sCJD patients. Nuclear translocalization of DJ-1 confirmed its expressional alteration due to OS in sCJD. Downstream experiments showed the activation of nuclear factor erythroid-2 related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidative response element (ARE) pathway. DJ-1 protein concentration was significantly increased during the clinical phase in cerebrospinal fluid of sCJD patients and also at presymptomatic and symptomatic stages in cerebellum of humanized PrP transgenic mice inoculated with sCJD (MM1 and VV2) brain. These results suggest the implication of oxidative stress during the pathophysiology of sCJD.
Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone tumor, with metastatic disease responsible for most treatment failure and patient death. A forward genetic screen utilizing Sleeping Beauty mutagenesis in mice previously identified potential genetic drivers of osteosarcoma metastasis, including Slit-Robo GTPase-Activating Protein 2 (Srgap2). This study evaluates the potential role of SRGAP2 in metastases-associated properties of osteosarcoma cell lines through Srgap2 knockout via the CRISPR/Cas9 nuclease system and conditional overexpression in the murine osteosarcoma cell lines K12 and K7M2. Proliferation, migration, and anchorage independent growth were evaluated. RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry of human osteosarcoma tissue samples were used to further evaluate the potential role of the Slit-Robo pathway in osteosarcoma. The effects of Srgap2 expression modulation in the murine OS cell lines support the hypothesis that SRGAP2 may have a role as a suppressor of metastases in osteosarcoma. Additionally, SRGAP2 and other genes in the Slit-Robo pathway have altered transcript levels in a subset of mouse and human osteosarcoma, and SRGAP2 protein expression is reduced or absent in a subset of primary tumor samples. SRGAP2 and other axon guidance proteins likely play a role in osteosarcoma metastasis, with loss of SRGAP2 potentially contributing to a more aggressive phenotype.
alpha-synuclein gene mutations can cause alpha-synuclein protein aggregation in the midbrain of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a key role in the metabolism of alpha-synuclein but the mechanism involved in synucleinopathy remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the miRNA profiles in A53T-alpha-synuclein transgenic mice and analyzed the candidate miRNAs in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of PD patients. The 12-month A53T-transgenic mouse displayed hyperactive movement and anxiolytic-like behaviors with alpha-synuclein aggregation in midbrain. A total of 317,759 total and 289,207 unique small RNA sequences in the midbrain of mice were identified by high-throughput deep sequencing. We found 644 miRNAs were significantly changed in the transgenic mice. Based on the conserved characteristic of miRNAs, we selected 11 candidates from the 40 remarkably expressed miRNAs and explored their expression in 44 CSF samples collected from PD patients. The results revealed that 11 microRNAs were differently expressed in CSF, emphatically as miR-144-5p, miR-200a-3p and miR-542-3p, which were dramatically up-regulated in both A53T-transgenic mice and PD patients, and had a helpful accuracy for the PD prediction. The ordered logistic regression analysis showed that the severity of PD has strong correlation with an up-expression of miR-144-5p, miR-200a-3p and miR-542-3p in CSF. Taken together, our data suggested that miRNAs in CSF, such as miR-144-5p, miR-200a-3p and miR-542-3p, may be useful to the PD diagnosis as potential biomarkers.
ADP-ribosylation is a common posttranslational modification that may have antiviral properties and impact innate immunity. To regulate this activity, macrodomain proteins enzymatically remove covalently attached ADP-ribose from protein targets. All members of the Coronavirinae, a subfamily of positive-sense RNA viruses, contain a highly conserved macrodomain within nonstructural protein 3 (nsp3). However, its function or targets during infection remain unknown. We identified several macrodomain mutations that greatly reduced nsp3's de-ADP-ribosylation activity in vitro Next, we created recombinant severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) strains with these mutations. These mutations led to virus attenuation and a modest reduction of viral loads in infected mice, despite normal replication in cell culture. Further, macrodomain mutant virus elicited an early, enhanced interferon (IFN), interferon-stimulated gene (ISG), and proinflammatory cytokine response in mice and in a human bronchial epithelial cell line. Using a coinfection assay, we found that inclusion of mutant virus in the inoculum protected mice from an otherwise lethal SARS-CoV infection without reducing virus loads, indicating that the changes in innate immune response were physiologically significant. In conclusion, we have established a novel function for the SARS-CoV macrodomain that implicates ADP-ribose in the regulation of the innate immune response and helps to demonstrate why this domain is conserved in CoVs. IMPORTANCE: The macrodomain is a ubiquitous structural domain that removes ADP-ribose from proteins, reversing the activity of ADP-ribosyltransferases. All coronaviruses contain a macrodomain, suggesting that ADP-ribosylation impacts coronavirus infection. However, its function during infection remains unknown. Here, we found that the macrodomain is an important virulence factor for a highly pathogenic human CoV, SARS-CoV. Viruses with macrodomain mutations that abrogate its ability to remove ADP-ribose from protein were unable to cause lethal disease in mice. Importantly, the SARS-CoV macrodomain suppressed the innate immune response during infection. Our data suggest that an early innate immune response can protect mice from lethal disease. Understanding the mechanism used by this enzyme to promote disease will open up novel avenues for coronavirus therapies and give further insight into the role of macrodomains in viral pathogenesis.
Cardiomyopathies are a leading cause of heart failure and are often caused by mutations in sarcomeric genes, resulting in contractile dysfunction and cellular damage. This may stimulate the production of a robust proinflammatory response. To determine whether myocardial inflammation is associated with cardiac dysfunction in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) caused by MYBPC3 mutation, we used the well-characterized cMyBP-C(t/t) mouse model of DCM at 3months of age. Compared to wild type (WT) mice, DCM mice exhibited significantly decreased fractional shortening (36.4+/-2% vs. 15.5+/-1.0%, p<0.0001) and significantly increased spleen weight (5.3+/-0.3 vs. 7.2+/-0.4mg/mm, p=0.002). Intriguingly, flow cytometry analysis revealed a significant increase in total (CD45+CD11b+Ly6C-MHCII+F480+) macrophages (6.5+/-1.4% vs. 14.8+/-1.4%, p=0.002) and classically activated (CD45+CD11b+Ly6C-MHCII+F480+CD206-) proinflammatory (M1) macrophages (3.4+/-0.8% vs. 10.3+/-1.2%, p=0.0009) in DCM hearts as compared with WT hearts. These results were further confirmed by immunofluorescence analysis of heart tissue sections. Splenic red pulp (CD11b+Ly6C+MHCIIlowF480hi) macrophages were significantly elevated (1.3+/-0.1% vs. 2.4+/-0.1%, p=0.0001) in DCM compared to WT animals. Serum cytokine analysis in DCM animals exhibited a significant increase (0.65+/-0.2 vs. 2.175+/-0.5pg/mL, p=0.02) in interleukin (IL)-6 compared to WT animals. Furthermore, RNA-seq analysis revealed the upregulation of inflammatory pathways in the DCM hearts. Together, these data indicate a robust proinflammatory response in DCM hearts, likely in response to cellular damage triggered by MYBPC3 mutation and resultant contractile dysfunction.
BACKGROUND: The control of cell proliferation is a fundamental aspect of tissue formation in development and regeneration. A cell type that illustrates this point particularly well is the neural crest-derived melanocyte, the pigment cell of vertebrates, as melanocytes can be followed easily during development and their pigment is directly visible in the integument of the adult. In mammals, melanocytes undergo physiological cycles of loss and proliferative regeneration during the hair cycle, and their proliferation is also critical during wound healing, repigmentation of depigmented lesions, and in melanoma formation and progression. Hence, a thorough analysis of the molecular parameters controlling melanocyte proliferation is crucial for our understanding of the physiology of this cell type both in health and disease. OBJECTIVE: SOX10 is a critical regulator in melanocytes and melanoma cells, but its specific role in their proliferation is far from clear. In this study we analyze the role of SOX10 in regulating mammalian melanocyte proliferation in a mouse model. METHODS: The role of SOX10 in melanoblast proliferation was analyzed in Sox10/+ mice by co-staining for melanocyte-specific markers and cell proliferation. In vitro, the role of SOX10 was studied by manipulating its levels using RNAi and analyzing the effects on DNA synthesis and cell growth and on gene expression at the RNA and protein levels. RESULTS: Reduction of Sox10 gene dose led to a reduction in the number of melanoblasts. Knockdown of Sox10 in melanocytes led to inhibition of cell proliferation and a decrease in the expression of the minichromosome maintenance complex component 5 (MCM5). In fact, SOX10 directly activated MCM5 transcription by binding to conserved SOX10 consensus DNA sequences in the MCM5 promoter. Furthermore, the defect in cell proliferation could be rescued partially by overexpression of MCM5 in Sox10 knockdown melanocytes. CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the SOX10-MCM5 axis plays an important role in controlling melanocyte proliferation. Our findings provide novel insights into the regulatory mechanisms of melanocyte proliferation and may have implications for our understanding of the roles of SOX10 and MCM5 in abnormal melanocyte proliferation disorders such as cutaneous melanoma.
BACKGROUND: By January, 2016, all known transmission chains of the Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak in west Africa had been stopped. However, there is concern about persistence of Ebola virus in the reproductive tract of men who have survived EVD. We aimed to use biostatistical modelling to describe the dynamics of Ebola virus RNA load in seminal fluid, including clearance parameters. METHODS: In this longitudinal study, we recruited men who had been discharged from three Ebola treatment units in Guinea between January and July, 2015. Participants provided samples of seminal fluid at follow-up every 3-6 weeks, which we tested for Ebola virus RNA using quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Representative specimens from eight participants were then inoculated into immunodeficient mice to test for infectivity. We used a linear mixed-effect model to analyse the dynamics of virus persistence in seminal fluid over time. FINDINGS: We enrolled 26 participants and tested 130 seminal fluid specimens; median follow up was 197 days (IQR 187-209 days) after enrolment, which corresponded to 255 days (228-287) after disease onset. Ebola virus RNA was detected in 86 semen specimens from 19 (73%) participants. Median duration of Ebola virus RNA detection was 158 days after onset (73-181; maximum 407 days at end of follow-up). Mathematical modelling of the quantitative time-series data showed a mean clearance rate of Ebola virus RNA from seminal fluid of -0.58 log units per month, although the clearance kinetic varied greatly between participants. Using our biostatistical model, we predict that 50% and 90% of male survivors clear Ebola virus RNA from seminal fluid at 115 days (90% prediction interval 72-160) and 294 days (212-399) after disease onset, respectively. We also predicted that the number of men positive for Ebola virus RNA in affected countries would decrease from about 50 in January 2016, to fewer than 1 person by July, 2016. Infectious virus was detected in 15 of 26 (58%) specimens tested in mice. INTERPRETATION: Time to clearance of Ebola virus RNA from seminal fluid varies greatly between individuals and could be more than 13 months. Our predictions will assist in decision-making about surveillance and preventive measures in EVD outbreaks. FUNDING: This study was funded by European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development of the European Commission, Institut national de la sante et de la recherche medicale (INSERM), German Research Foundation (DFG), and Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking.
We recently discovered that forebrain activation of the IL-1 receptor/Toll-like receptor (IL-1R1/TLR4) innate immunity signal plays a pivotal role in neuronal hyperexcitability underlying seizures in rodents. Since this pathway is activated in neurons and glia in human epileptogenic foci, it represents a potential target for developing drugs interfering with the mechanisms of epileptogenesis that lead to spontaneous seizures. The lack of such drugs represents a major unmet clinical need. We tested therefore novel therapies inhibiting the IL-1R1/TLR4 signaling in an established murine model of acquired epilepsy. We used an epigenetic approach by injecting a synthetic mimic of micro(mi)RNA-146a that impairs IL1R1/TLR4 signal transduction, or we blocked receptor activation with antiinflammatory drugs. Both interventions when transiently applied to mice after epilepsy onset, prevented disease progression and dramatically reduced chronic seizure recurrence, while the anticonvulsant drug carbamazepine was ineffective. We conclude that IL-1R1/TLR4 is a novel potential therapeutic target for attaining disease-modifications in patients with diagnosed epilepsy.
Mercury is a widespread toxicant in aquatic environment that can cause deleterious effects on fish. Although a number of mercury-regulated genes have been investigated in adult fish, the transcriptional responses of fish larvae to acute mercury exposure are not well understood. In this study, RNA sequencing was used to examine the transcriptional changes in developing zebrafish larvae under a low concentration of mercuric chloride exposure from 24 to 120hpf. Our initial results showed that a total of 142.59 million raw reads were obtained from sequencing libraries and about 86% of the processed reads were mapped to the reference genome of zebrafish. Differential expression analysis identified 391 up- and 87 down-regulated genes. Gene ontology enrichment analysis revealed that most of the differential expressed genes are closely related to the regulation of cellular process, metabolic process, multicellular organismal process, biological regulation, pigmentation, and response to stimulus. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis demonstrated that antigen processing and presentation was the most significantly enriched pathway. Moreover, we characterized a novel and sensitive mercury-induced ABCB (ATP- binding cassette B subfamily) transporter gene - abcb5. This gene is localized on zebrafish chromosome 16 and contains a 4014bp open-reading frame. The deduced polypeptide is composed of 1337 amino acids and possesses most of functional domains and critical residues defined in human and mouse ABCB5/Abcb5. Functional analysis in vitro demonstrated that overexpression of zebrafish abcb5 gene can significantly decrease the cytotoxicity of mercury in LLC-PK1 cells, implying it is a potential efflux transporter of mercury. Thus, these findings provide useful insights to help further understand the transcriptional response and detoxification ability of zebrafish larvae following acute exposure to mercury.
The dynamic properties of the actin cytoskeleton in smooth muscle cells play an important role in a number of cardiovascular disease states. The state of actin does not only mediate mechanical stability and contractile function but can also regulate gene expression via myocardin related transcription factors (MRTFs). These transcriptional co-activators regulate genes encoding contractile and cytoskeletal proteins in smooth muscle. Regulation of small non-coding microRNAs (miRNAs) by actin polymerization may mediate some of these effects. MiRNAs are short non-coding RNAs that modulate gene expression by post-transcriptional regulation of target messenger RNA. In this study we aimed to determine a profile of miRNAs that were 1) regulated by actin/MRTF-A, 2) associated with the contractile smooth muscle phenotype and 3) enriched in muscle cells. This analysis was performed using cardiovascular disease-focused miRNA arrays in both mouse and human cells. The potential clinical importance of actin polymerization in aortic aneurysm was evaluated using biopsies from mildly dilated human thoracic aorta in patients with stenotic tricuspid or bicuspid aortic valve. By integrating information from multiple qPCR based miRNA arrays we identified a group of five miRNAs (miR-1, miR-22, miR-143, miR-145 and miR-378a) that were sensitive to actin polymerization and MRTF-A overexpression in both mouse and human vascular smooth muscle. With the exception of miR-22, these miRNAs were also relatively enriched in striated and/or smooth muscle containing tissues. Actin polymerization was found to be dramatically reduced in the aorta from patients with mild aortic dilations. This was associated with a decrease in actin/MRTF-regulated miRNAs. In conclusion, the transcriptional co-activator MRTF-A and actin polymerization regulated a subset of miRNAs in vascular smooth muscle. Identification of novel miRNAs regulated by actin/MRTF-A may provide further insight into the mechanisms underlying vascular disease states, such as aortic aneurysm, as well as novel ideas regarding therapeutic strategies. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: ECS Meeting edited by Claus Heizmann, Joachim Krebs and Jacques Haiech.
Complex behavioral traits, such as alcohol abuse, are caused by an interplay of genetic and environmental factors, producing deleterious functional adaptations in the central nervous system. The long-term behavioral consequences of such changes are of substantial cost to both the individual and society. Substantial progress has been made in the last two decades in understanding elements of brain mechanisms underlying responses to ethanol in animal models and risk factors for alcohol use disorder (AUD) in humans. However, treatments for AUD remain largely ineffective and few medications for this disease state have been licensed. Genome-wide genetic polymorphism analysis (GWAS) in humans, behavioral genetic studies in animal models and brain gene expression studies produced by microarrays or RNA-seq have the potential to produce nonbiased and novel insight into the underlying neurobiology of AUD. However, the complexity of such information, both statistical and informational, has slowed progress toward identifying new targets for intervention in AUD. This chapter describes one approach for integrating behavioral, genetic, and genomic information across animal model and human studies. The goal of this approach is to identify networks of genes functioning in the brain that are most relevant to the underlying mechanisms of a complex disease such as AUD. We illustrate an example of how genomic studies in animal models can be used to produce robust gene networks that have functional implications, and to integrate such animal model genomic data with human genetic studies such as GWAS for AUD. We describe several useful analysis tools for such studies: ComBAT, WGCNA, and EW_dmGWAS. The end result of this analysis is a ranking of gene networks and identification of their cognate hub genes, which might provide eventual targets for future therapeutic development. Furthermore, this combined approach may also improve our understanding of basic mechanisms underlying gene x environmental interactions affecting brain functioning in health and disease.
The Collaborative Cross (CC) is a large panel of inbred mouse strains currently being developed for multiple areas of research. Scientists are taking integrated omics-style approaches to collecting data in order to obtain a deeper understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying a number of diverse disease phenotypes. As the cost of the next generation sequencing (NGS) decreases, RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) has become the favored approach to transcriptomic analyses versus microarrays due to increases in sensitivity and resolution. This is particularly the case with newly defined genomes, where experimental annotation has not caught up to the new microarray platforms. Traditional RNA-seq approaches are not ideal when working with results from collaborative cross studies, as the genomes across individual strains differ considerably. In this chapter we will provide an overview of how to effectively perform RNA-seq analysis from data obtained from the CC mice.
Control of protein homeostasis is fundamental to the health and longevity of all organisms. Because the rate of protein synthesis by ribosomes is a central control point in this process, regulation and maintenance of ribosome function could have amplified importance in the overall regulatory circuit. Indeed, ribosomal defects are commonly associated with loss of protein homeostasis, aging and disease, whereas improved protein homeostasis, implying optimal ribosomal function, is associated with disease resistance and increased lifespan. To maintain a high quality ribosome population within the cell, dysfunctional ribosomes are targeted for autophagic degradation. It is not known if complete degradation is the only mechanism for eukaryotic ribosome maintenance or if they might also be repaired by replacement of defective components. We used stable-isotope feeding and protein mass-spectrometry to measure the kinetics of turnover of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and 71 ribosomal proteins (r-proteins) in mice. The results indicate that exchange of individual proteins and whole ribosome degradation both contribute to ribosome maintenance in vivo. In general, peripheral r-proteins and those with more direct roles in peptide-bond formation are replaced multiple times during the lifespan of the assembled structure, presumably by exchange with a free cytoplasmic pool, whereas the majority of r-proteins are stably incorporated for the lifetime of the ribosome. Dietary signals impact the rates of both new ribosome assembly and component exchange. Signal-specific modulation of ribosomal repair and degradation could provide a mechanistic link in the frequently observed associations among diminished rates of protein synthesis, increased autophagy, and greater longevity.
Alternate splicing of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) 2C receptor (5-HT2CR) pre-RNA is negatively regulated by the small nucleolar RNA, Snord115, loss of which is observed in nearly all individuals with Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS), a multigenic disorder characterised by hyperphagia and obesity. Given the role of the 5-HT2CR in the regulation of ingestive behaviour we investigated the pathophysiological implications of Snord115 deficiency on 5-HT2CR regulated appetite in a genotypically relevant PWS mouse model (PWS-IC). Specifically, we demonstrate that loss of Snord115 expression is associated with increased levels of hypothalamic truncated 5-HT2CR pre-mRNA. The 5-HT2CR promotes appetite suppression via engagement of the central melanocortin system. Pro-opiomelancortin (Pomc) mRNA levels within the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARC) were reduced in PWS-IC mice. We then went on to assess the functional consequences of these molecular changes, demonstrating that PWS-IC mice are unresponsive to an anorectic doses of a 5-HT2CR agonist and that this is associated with attenuated activation of POMC neurons within the ARC. These data provide new insight into the significance of Htr2c pre-mRNA processing to the physiological regulation of appetite and potentially the pathological manifestation of hyperphagia in PWS. Furthermore, these findings have translational relevance for individuals with PWS who may seek to control appetite with another 5-HT2CR agonist, the new obesity treatment lorcaserin.
BACKGROUND: Colitis-associated cancer (CAC) is caused by chronic intestinal inflammation and often results from refractory inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Stress response proteins Cirp and HSPA4 are involved in the refractory clinical course and development of CAC. RNA-binding motif protein 3 (RBM3) is induced in response to various stresses and is upregulated in several cancers. However, the role of RBM3 in CAC is unclear. METHODS: We assessed RBM3 expression and function in 263 human intestinal mucosa samples from patients with IBD and in Rbm3-deficient (Rbm3) mice. RESULTS: Expression of RBM3 was correlated with the expression of stress response proteins Cirp, HSPA4, and HSP27 in the colonic mucosa of patients with IBD. Significant correlation was observed between the expression of RBM3 and that of Bcl-xL or stem cell markers. RBM3 expression increased and significantly correlated with R-spondin expression in the colonic mucosa of patients with refractory IBD, a condition associated with increased cancer risk, and RBM3 was overexpressed in human CACs. In the murine CAC model, Rbm3 deficiency decreased R-spondin and Bcl-xL expression and increased apoptotic cell number in the colonic mucosa, leading to reduced tumor multiplicity. Transplantation of wild-type and Rbm3 bone marrow did not alter tumor burden, indicating the importance of RBM3 in epithelial cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicated that RBM3 was required for efficient inflammatory carcinogenesis in the murine CAC model and suggested that RBM3 could be a predictive biomarker of CAC risk and a new therapeutic target for cancer prevention in patients with IBD.
Ribonucleoprotein (RNP) granules play a major role in compartmentalizing cytoplasmic RNA regulation. Haploid round spermatids that have exceptionally diverse transcriptomes are characterized by a unique germ cell-specific RNP granule, the chromatoid body (CB). The CB shares many characteristics with somatic RNP granules but also has germline-specific features. The CB appears to be a central structure in PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA)-targeted RNA regulation. Here, we identified a novel CB component, FYCO1, which is involved in the intracellular transport of autophagic vesicles in somatic cells. We demonstrated that the CB is associated with autophagic activity. Induction of autophagy leads to the recruitment of lysosomal vesicles onto the CB in a FYCO1-dependent manner as demonstrated by the analysis of a germ cell-specific Fyco1 conditional knockout mouse model. Furthermore, in the absence of FYCO1, the integrity of the CB was affected and the CB was fragmented. Our results suggest that RNP granule homeostasis is regulated by FYCO1-mediated autophagy.
BACKGROUND: Tollip is a ubiquitously expressed protein, originally described as a modulator of the IL-1R/TLR-NF-kappaB signaling pathways. Although this property has been well characterized in peripheral cells, and despite some evidence of its expression in the central nervous system, the role of Tollip in neuroinflammation remains poorly understood. The present study sought to explore the implication of Tollip in inflammation in the substantia nigra pars compacta, the structure affected in Parkinson's disease. METHODS: We first investigated Tollip distribution in the midbrain by immunohistochemistry. Then, we addressed TLR4-mediated response by intra-nigral injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a TLR4 agonist, on inflammatory markers in Tollip knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. RESULTS: We report an unexpectedly high Tollip immunostaining in dopaminergic neurons of the mice brain. Second, intra-nigral injection of LPS led to increased susceptibility to neuroinflammation in Tollip KO compared to Tollip WT mice. This was demonstrated by a significant increase of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1beta), interleukin 6 (IL-6), and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) messenger RNA (mRNA) in the midbrain of Tollip KO mice upon LPS injection. Consistently, brain rAAV viral vector transduction with a nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB)-inducible reporter gene confirmed increased NF-kappaB activation in Tollip KO mice. Lastly, Tollip KO mice displayed higher inducible NO synthase (iNOS) production, both at the messenger and protein level when compared to LPS-injected WT mice. Tollip deletion also aggravated LPS-induced oxidative and nitrosative damages, as indicated by an increase of 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine and nitrotyrosine immunostaining, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, these findings highlight a critical role of Tollip in the early phase of TLR4-mediated neuroinflammation. As brain inflammation is known to contribute to Parkinson's disease, Tollip may be a potential target for neuroprotection.
Excessive fibrogenesis disrupts normal liver structure, impairs liver function, and precipitates the development of cirrhosis, an irreversible end-stage liver disease. A host of factors including nutrition surplus contribute to liver fibrosis but the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of protein inhibitor for activated stat 4 (PIAS4) in liver fibrosis in a mouse model of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We report that PIAS4 silencing using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) attenuated high-fat high-carbohydrate (HFHC) diet induced liver fibrosis in mice. Quantitative PCR and Western blotting analyses confirmed that PIAS4 knockdown downregulated a panel of pro-fibrogenic genes including type I and type III collagens, smooth muscle actin, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase. Mechanistically, PIAS4 silencing blocked the recruitment of SMAD3, a potent pro-fibrogenic transcription factor, to the promoter regions of pro-fibrogenic genes and dampened SMAD3 acetylation likely by upregulating SIRT1 expression. In conclusion, PIAS4 may contribute to liver fibrosis by modulating SIRT1-dependent SMAD3 acetylation.
High extracellular osmolarity results in a switch from an adaptive to an inflammatory gene expression program. We show that hyperosmotic stress activates the protein kinase R (PKR) independently of its RNA binding domain. In turn, PKR stimulated nuclear accumulation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) p65 species phosphorylated at serine-536, which was paralleled by the induction of a subset of inflammatory NF-kappaB p65- responsive genes including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), IL-6, and IL-1beta. The PKR mediated-hyperinduction of iNOS decreased cell survival in mouse embryonic fibroblasts via mechanisms involving nitric oxide (NO) synthesis and post-translational modification of proteins. Moreover, we demonstrate that the PKR inhibitor C16 ameliorates both iNOS amplification and disease-induced phenotypic breakdown of the intestinal epithelial barrier caused by an increase in extracellular osmolarity induced by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in vivo Collectively, these findings indicate that PKR activation is an essential part of the molecular switch from adaptation to inflammation in response to hyperosmotic stress.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), which is implicated in the pathophysiology of neurological disorders, is distributed along the axon and enriched at the presynaptic basal lamina. It hydrolyses the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, which inhibits synaptic transmission. Aberrant AChE activity and ectopic axonal accumulation of the enzyme are associated with neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. The molecular mechanism that underlies AChE transport is still unclear. Here, we show that expression of Drosophila AChE tagged with photoactivable green fluorescent protein and m-Cherry (GPAC) in cholinergic neurons compensates for the RNA interference-mediated knockdown of endogenous AChE activity. GPAC-AChE, which is enriched in the neuropil region of the brain, moves in the apparently vesicular form in axons with an anterograde bias in Drosophila larvae. Two anterograde motors, kinesin-1 and -2, propel distinct aspects of GPAC-AChE movements. Total loss of kinesin-2 reduces the density of anterograde traffic and increases bidirectional movements of GPAC-AChE vesicles without altering their speed. A partial loss of kinesin-1 reduces both the density and speed of anterograde GPAC-AChE traffic and enhances the pool of stationary vesicles. Together, these results suggest that combining activity of a relatively weak kinesin-2 with that of a stronger kinesin-1 motor could steer AChE-containing vesicles toward synapse, and provides a molecular basis for the observed subcellular distribution of the enzyme.-Kulkarni, A., Khan, Y., Ray, K. Heterotrimeric kinesin-2, together with kinesin-1, steers vesicular acetylcholinesterase movements toward the synapse.
Parkinson's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative disease found in aged peoples. Plentiful studies are being conducted to find a suitable and effective cure for this disease giving special impetus on use of herbal plants. The study aimed at investigating the effect of ethanolic extract of Mucuna pruriens (Mp) on level of nitric oxide (NO) in paraquat (PQ) induced Parkinson's disease (PD) mouse model and its subsequent contribution to lipid peroxidation. Twenty four Swiss albino mice were divided into three groups; Control, PQ and PQ+Mp. PQ doses were given intraperitoneally, twice in a week and oral dose of ethanolic extract of Mp seed was given for 9 weeks. Nitrite content and lipid peroxidation was measured in all treated groups along with respective controls. RNA was isolated from the nigrostriatal tissue of control and the treated mice and was reverse transcribed into cDNA. PCR was performed to amplify iNOS mRNA and western blot analysis was performed to check its protein level. We had also perfused the mice in all treated group and performed Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and iNOS immunoreactivity in substantia nigra region of mice brain. PQ-treatment increased nitrite content, expression of iNOS and lipid peroxidation compared to respective controls. Mp treatment resulted in a significant attenuation of iNOS expression, nitrite content and lipid peroxidation demonstrating that it reduces nitric oxide in PQ-induced Parkinson's disease. Interestingly; we also observed that mRNA, protein expression and immunoreactivity of iNOS was significantly decreased after Mp treatment and TH immunoreactivity was significantly improved after the treatment of Mp. Our results demonstrated that Mp protects the dopaminergic neurons from the NO injury in substantia nigra.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a rare yet deadly malignancy with limited treatment options. Activation of the Notch signalling cascade has been implicated in cholangiocarcinogenesis. However, while several studies focused on the Notch receptors required for ICC development, little is known about the upstream inducers responsible for their activation. Here, we show that the Jagged 1 (Jag1) ligand is almost ubiquitously upregulated in human ICC samples when compared with corresponding non-tumorous counterparts. Furthermore, we found that while overexpression of Jag1 alone does not lead to liver tumour development, overexpression of Jag1 synergizes with activated AKT signalling to promote liver carcinogenesis in AKT/Jag1 mice. Histologically, tumours consisted exclusively of ICC, with hepatocellular tumours not occurring in AKT/Jag1 mice. Furthermore, tumours from AKT/Jag1 mice exhibited extensive desmoplastic reaction, an important feature of human ICC. At the molecular level, we found that both AKT/mTOR and Notch cascades are activated in AKT/Jag1 ICC tissues, and that the Notch signalling is necessary for ICC development in AKT/Jag1 mice. In human ICC cell lines, silencing of Jag1 via specific small interfering RNA reduces proliferation and increases apoptosis. Finally, combined inhibition of AKT and Notch pathways is highly detrimental for the in vitro growth of ICC cell lines. In summary, our study demonstrates that Jag1 is an important upstream inducer of the Notch signalling in human and mouse ICC. Targeting Jag1 might represent a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of this deadly disease.
Influenza A virus (IAV) causes annual epidemics and occasional pandemics, and is one of the best-characterized human RNA viral pathogens1. However, a physiologically relevant role for the RNA interference (RNAi) suppressor activity of the IAV non-structural protein 1 (NS1), reported over a decade ago2, remains unknown3. Plant and insect viruses have evolved diverse virulence proteins to suppress RNAi as their hosts produce virus-derived small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that direct specific antiviral defence4-7 by an RNAi mechanism dependent on the slicing activity of Argonaute proteins (AGOs)8,9. Recent studies have documented induction and suppression of antiviral RNAi in mouse embryonic stem cells and suckling mice10,11. However, it is still under debate whether infection by IAV or any other RNA virus that infects humans induces and/or suppresses antiviral RNAi in mature mammalian somatic cells12-21. Here, we demonstrate that mature human somatic cells produce abundant virus-derived siRNAs co-immunoprecipitated with AGOs in response to IAV infection. We show that the biogenesis of viral siRNAs from IAV double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) precursors in infected cells is mediated by wild-type human Dicer and potently suppressed by both NS1 of IAV as well as virion protein 35 (VP35) of Ebola and Marburg filoviruses. We further demonstrate that the slicing catalytic activity of AGO2 inhibits IAV and other RNA viruses in mature mammalian cells, in an interferon-independent fashion. Altogether, our work shows that IAV infection induces and suppresses antiviral RNAi in differentiated mammalian somatic cells.
BMAL1 (brain and muscle ARNT-like protein 1, also known as MOP3 or ARNT3) belongs to the family of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-PAS domain-containing transcription factors, and is a key component of the molecular oscillator that generates circadian rhythms. Here, we report that BMAL1-deficient cells are significantly more susceptible to infection by two major respiratory viruses of the Paramyxoviridae family, namely RSV and PIV3. Embryonic fibroblasts from Bmal1-/- mice produced nearly 10-fold more progeny virus than their wild type controls. These results were supported by animal studies whereby pulmonary infection of RSV produced a more severe disease and morbidity in Bmal1-/-mice. These results show that BMAL1 can regulate cellular innate immunity against specific RNA viruses.
Proteasome-dependent turnover of mitochondrial outer membrane (OMM)-associated proteins is one of the mechanisms for maintaining proper mitochondrial quality and function. However, the underlying pathways and their implications in human disease are poorly understood. Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expanded CAG repeats in the N terminal of the huntingtin gene (mutant Huntingtin, mtHtt). In this study, we show an extensive degradation of the OMM protein MCL1 (Myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1) in both HD mouse striatal cells and HD patient fibroblasts. The decrease in MCL1 level is associated with mitochondrial and cellular damage. Valosin-containing-protein (VCP) is an AAA-ATPase central to protein turnover via the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS). We found that VCP translocates to mitochondria and promotes MCL1 degradation in HD cell cultures. Either down-regulation of VCP by RNA interference or inhibition of VCP by a dominant negative mutant abolishes MCL1 degradation in HD cell cultures. We further show that UBX-domain containing protein 1 (UBXD1), a known co-factor of VCP assisting in the recognition of substrates for protein degradation, selectively binds to MCL1 and interacts with VCP to mediate MCL1 extraction from the mitochondria. These results indicate that the OMM protein MCL1 is degraded by the VCP-UBXD1 complex and that the process is promoted by the presence of mtHtt. Therefore, our finding provides a new insight into the mechanism of mitochondrial dysfunction in HD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative brain disease and is the most common form of dementia. In recent years, many studies indicated the association of gut microbiota changes with metabolic diseases. However, the gut microbiota of AD has not been investigated. The present study aims to compare the gut microbiota in APP/PS1 transgenic mice of AD and C57/Bl6 wild-type (WT) mice by pyrosequencing the V3 and V4 regions of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA genes. The 3-, 6-, and 8-month-old APP/PS1 and WT mice were used to explore the effects of age on the gut microbiota. First, the results indicated that impaired spatial learning and memory appeared in 6-month-old APP/PS1 mice and was further aggravated in the 8-month-old group, which was consistent with immunohistochemical studies of amyloid plaque. Second, AD histological and behavioral manifestations in the APP/PS1 mice were found to be correlated with a specific gut microbiome state. Third, the microbiota diversity of APP/PS1 mice decreased with increased age. Fourth, further inspection showed that the abundance of Helicobacteraceae and Desulfovibrionaceae at the family level and Odoribacter and Helicobacter at the genus level increased significantly in APP/PS1 mice than in WT mice, while Prevotella abundance in WT mice was significantly higher than in APP/PS1 mice. More human studies are warranted to explore the potential of gut microbiota as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic target for AD.
OBJECTIVES: Serum amyloid A (SAA), an acute phase protein, is highly expressed in psoriatic lesions but its function is not fully understood. The aim of this study was to explore its role in activation of keratinocytes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Real-time PCR and immunofluorescence were performed to examine SAA expression in imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis-like mice. In vivo function of SAA was examined by treating psoriasis-like mice with SAA neutralising antibody. Cell viability was monitored using the CCK-8 assay. Real-time PCR was performed to determine expression of genes associated with differentiation and inflammation. Ki67+ percentage and immunological markers were analysed by flow cytometry. Involvement of formyl peptide receptor-like 1 (FPRL1) in SAA signal transduction was determined by RNA interference. Binding of SAA and FPRL1 was examined by co-immunoprecipitaion. Western blotting was conducted to assess phosphorylation of downstream signalling molecules. RESULTS: SAA was highly expressed in skin lesions of IMQ-treated psoriasis-like mice and neutralising SAA attenuated epidermal hyperplasia and inflammation. SAA in vitro promoted keratinocyte proliferation and expression of immunological mediators, while inhibiting differentiation. Effects of SAA on keratinocyte proliferation and inflammation were mediated by FPRL1, as well as activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway. CONCLUSIONS: These observations indicate that SAA/FPRL1 contributed to pathogenesis of psoriasis by promoting keratinocyte proliferation and inflammation, thus providing a potential therapeutic target for disease therapy.
Altering expression of specific genes in rodent models allows the dissection of various pathways involved in various disease states. Advances in gene transfer technologies produced vectors with tissue specificity, various time courses, increasing or knocking down genes in an externally controlled fashion. To achieve this goal, appropriate vector delivery method is essential for successfully conducting experiments. In this chapter, we focus on cardiac gene transfer in rodents that can be employed for delivering both viral and nonviral vectors.
PURPOSE: Diffuse-type gastric cancer (DGC) carries a poor prognosis. Effective screening is one measure that might improve the prognosis of this disease. An E-cadherin/p53 double-conditional knockout (DCKO) mouse line recapitulates human DGC morphologically and molecularly. Three circulating microRNAs (miRNA) (miR-103, miR-107, miR-194) in DCKO mice have been identified as biomarkers for DGC. We sought to evaluate whether these circulating miRNAs could be used for the detection of human DGC. METHODS: Subjects were 50 patients with DGC. Controls were first-time outpatients at Aichi Cancer Center Hospital, age- and sex-matched, without a cancer diagnosis. Total RNA containing miRNA was extracted from the plasma samples and then reverse-transcribed. The levels of miRNAs in plasma samples were quantitatively determined by real-time RT-PCR. Spiked-in cel-miR-39 was analyzed as a normalization control. RESULTS: Levels of the three plasma microRNA levels in DGC cases with or without an intestinal component were not significantly different from those in control subjects. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve of miR-103, miR-107, and miR-194 were 0.548, 0.563, and 0.512, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to the DCKO mouse model, plasma miR-103, miR-107, and miR-194 levels are not altered in DGC and are not suitable for human DGC screening.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells expressing the transcription factor FOXP3 play a pivotal role in maintaining immunologic self-tolerance. We and others have previously shown that EZH2 is recruited to the FOXP3 promoter and its targets in Treg cells. To further address the role for EZH2 in Treg cellular function, we have now generated mice that lack EZH2 specifically in Treg cells (EZH2DeltaFOXP3+). We find that EZH2 deficiency in FOXP3+ T cells results in lethal multi-organ autoimmunity. We further demonstrate that EZH2DeltaFOXP3+ T cells lack a regulatory phenotype in vitro and secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines. Of special interest, EZH2DeltaFOXP3+ mice develop spontaneous inflammatory bowel disease. Guided by these results, we assessed the FOXP3 and EZH2 gene networks by RNA-Seq in isolated intestinal CD4+ T cells from patients with Crohns disease. Gene network analysis demonstrates that these CD4+ T cells display a Th1/Th17-like phenotype with an enrichment of gene targets shared by FOXP3 and EZH2. Combined, these results suggest that the inflammatory milieu found in Crohns disease lead to or result from deregulation of FOXP3/EZH2-enforced T cell gene networks contributing to the underlying intestinal inflammation.
BACKGROUND: The unfolded protein response (UPR) plays a pivotal role in ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in various organs such as heart, brain, and liver. Sodium 4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) reportedly acts as a chemical chaperone that reduces UPR. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of PBA on reducing the UPR and protecting against myocardial I/R injury in mice. METHODS: Male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to 30-minute myocardial I/R, and were treated with phosphate-buffered saline (as a vehicle) or PBA. RESULTS: At 4 hours after reperfusion, mice treated with PBA had reduced serum cardiac troponin I levels and numbers of apoptotic cells in left ventricles (LVs) in myocardial I/R. Infarct size had also reduced in mice treated with PBA at 48 hours after reperfusion. At 2 hours after reperfusion, UPR markers, including eukaryotic initiation of the factor 2alpha-subunit, activating transcription factor-6, inositol-requiring enzyme-1, glucose-regulated protein 78, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) homologous protein, and caspase-12, were significantly increased in mice treated with vehicle compared to sham-operated mice. Administration of PBA significantly reduced the I/R-induced increases of these markers. Cardiac function and dimensions were assessed at 21 days after I/R. Sodium 4-phenylbutyrate dedicated to the improvement of cardiac parameters deterioration including LV end-diastolic diameter and LV fractional shortening. Consistently, PBA reduced messenger RNA expression levels of cardiac remodeling markers such as collagen type 1alpha1, brain natriuretic peptide, and alpha skeletal muscle actin in LV at 21 days after I/R. CONCLUSION: Unfolded protein response mediates myocardial I/R injury. Administration of PBA reduces the UPR, apoptosis, infarct size, and preserved cardiac function. Hence, PBA may be a therapeutic option to attenuate myocardial I/R injury in clinical practice.
BACKGROUND: Nuclear bodies, such as nucleoli, PML bodies, and SC35 speckles, are dynamic sub-nuclear structures that regulate multiple genetic and epigenetic processes. Additional regulation is provided by RNA/DNA handling proteins, notably TDP-43 and FUS, which have been linked to ALS pathology. Previous work showed that mouse cell line myotubes have fewer but larger nucleoli than myoblasts, and we had found that nuclear aggregation of TDP-43 in human myotubes was induced by expression of DUX4-FL, a transcription factor that is aberrantly expressed and causes pathology in facioscapulohumeral dystrophy (FSHD). However, questions remained about nuclear bodies in human myogenesis and in muscle disease. METHODS: We examined nucleoli, PML bodies, SC35 speckles, TDP-43, and FUS in myoblasts and myotubes derived from healthy donors and from patients with FSHD, laminin-alpha-2-deficiency (MDC1A), and alpha-sarcoglycan-deficiency (LGMD2D). We further examined how these nuclear bodies and proteins were affected by DUX4-FL expression. RESULTS: We found that nucleoli, PML bodies, and SC35 speckles reorganized during differentiation in vitro, with all three becoming less abundant in myotube vs. myoblast nuclei. In addition, though PML bodies did not change in size, both nucleoli and SC35 speckles were larger in myotube than myoblast nuclei. Similar patterns of nuclear body reorganization occurred in healthy control, MDC1A, and LGMD2D cultures, as well as in the large fraction of nuclei that did not show DUX4-FL expression in FSHD cultures. In contrast, nuclei that expressed endogenous or exogenous DUX4-FL, though retaining normal nucleoli, showed disrupted morphology of some PML bodies and most SC35 speckles and also co-aggregation of FUS with TDP-43. CONCLUSIONS: Nucleoli, PML bodies, and SC35 speckles reorganize during human myotube formation in vitro. These nuclear body reorganizations are likely needed to carry out the distinct gene transcription and splicing patterns that are induced upon myotube formation. DUX4-FL-induced disruption of some PML bodies and most SC35 speckles, along with co-aggregation of TDP-43 and FUS, could contribute to pathogenesis in FSHD, perhaps by locally interfering with genetic and epigenetic regulation of gene expression in the small subset of nuclei that express high levels of DUX4-FL at any one time.
BACKGROUND: We previously reported that a clinical isolate of dengue virus (DENV) is capable of causing acute-phase systemic infection in mice harboring knockouts of the genes encoding type-I and -II interferon IFN receptors (IFN-alpha/beta/gammaR KO mice); in contrast, other virulent DENV isolates exhibited slow disease progression in this mice, yielding lethal infection around 20 days post-infection (p.i.). In the present study, we sought to clarify the dynamics of slow disease progression by examining disease progression of a type-2 DENV clinical isolate (DV2P04/08) in mice. METHODS: The tissue distributions of DV2P04/08 in several organs of infeted mice were examined at different time points. Whole genome viral sequences from organs were determined. RESULTS: At day 6 p.i., high levels of viral RNA (vRNA) were detected in non-neuronal organs (including peritoneal exudate cells (PECs), spleen, kidney, liver, lung, and bone marrow) but not in brain. By day 14 p.i, vRNA levels subsequently decreased in most organs, with the exception of thymus and brain. Sequence analysis of the whole genome of the original P04/08 and those of viruses recovered from mouse brain and thymus demonstrated the presence of both synonymous and non-synonymous mutations. Individual mice showed different virus populations in the brain. The vRNA sequence derived from brain of one mouse was nearly identical to the original DV2P04/08 inoculum, suggesting that there was no need for adaptation of DV2P04/08 for growth in the brain. However, quasispecies (that is, mixed populations, detected as apparent nucleotide mixtures during sequencing) were observed in the thymus of another mouse, and interestingly only mutant population invaded the brain at a late stage of infection. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that the mouse nearly succeeded in eliminating virus from non-neuronal organs but failed to do so from brain. Although the cause of death by DV2P04/08 infection is likely to be the result of virus invasion to brain, its processes to the death are different in individual mice. This study will provide a new insight into disease progression of DENV in mice.
Acquired drug resistance in childhood T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) remains a significant clinical problem. In this study, a novel gene therapy target for childhood T-ALL to overcome chemoresistance was discovered: TFDP3 increased in the minimal residual disease (MRD) positive childhood T-ALL patients. Then, we established a preclinical model of resistance to induction therapy to examine the functional relevance of TFDP3 to chemoresistance in MRD derived from Jurkat/E6-1. Jurkat xenografts in NOD/SCID mice were exposed to a four drug combination (VXLD) of vincristine (VCR), dexamethasone (DEX), L-asparaginase (L-asp) and daunorubicin (DNR). During the 4-week VXLD treatment, the level of TFDP3 increased 4-fold. High expression of TFDP3 was identified in the re-emerging lines (Jurkat/MRD) with increased chemoresistance, which is correlated with partially promoter demethylation of TFDP3. Downregulation of TFDP3 by RNA interference reversed chemoresistance in Jurkat/MRD accompanied by reinstated E2F1 activity that coincided with increased levels of p53, p73, and associated proapoptotic target genes. Importantly, TFDP3 silencing in vivo induced apparent benefit to overcome chemoresistance in combination with VXLD treatment. Collectively, TFDP3 confers chemoresistance in MRD within childhood T-ALL, indicating that TFDP3 is a potential gene therapy target for residual cancer.
Interleukin-25 (IL-25) is an important regulatory cytokine that has a key role on mucosal immune tolerance during inflammation response. However, the molecular mechanism that regulates the colonic IL-25 expression in Crohn's disease (CD) remains unclear. In this study, IL-25 level was proved to decrease in 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis mice and IL-10 knockout (KO) spontaneous colitis mice. An inverse correlation between IL-25 and miR-31 was discovered in the colons from model mice and CD patients. Furthermore, target validation analysis demonstrated that miR-31 directly regulated IL-25 expression by binding to its messenger RNA 3'-untranslated region. Changing colonic miR-31 level in the colitis mice could affect the mucosal IL-12/23-mediated Th1/Th17 pathway and lead to either amelioration or aggravation of colonic inflammation. In addition, the therapeutic effects of anti-miR-31 in TNBS-induced colitis were abolished by colonic treatment with IL-25 antibody or colonic down-expression of IL-25. Our findings demonstrated that IL-25 could be a crucial anti-inflammatory cytokine in TNBS-induced colitis and the signaling of miR-31 targeting IL-25 might be a possible mechanism that regulates IL-12/23-mediated Th1/Th17 inflammatory responses during colonic inflammation process. Restoring colonic IL-25 expression and blocking Th1/Th17 responses via intracolonic administration of miR-31 inhibitor may represent a promising approach for CD treatment.Mucosal Immunology advance online publication 30 November 2016; doi:10.1038/mi.2016.102.
BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic data suggest cholesterol-lowering drugs may prevent the progression of prostate cancer, but not the incidence of the disease. However, the association of combination therapy in cholesterol reduction on prostate or any cancer is unclear. In this study, we compared the effects of the cholesterol lowering drugs simvastatin and ezetimibe alone or in combination on the growth of LAPC-4 prostate cancer in vivo xenografts. METHODS: Proliferation assays were conducted by MTS solution and assessed by Student's t-test. 90 male nude mice were placed on a high-cholesterol Western-diet for 7 days then injected subcutaneously with 1 x 105 LAPC-4 cells. Two weeks post-injection, mice were randomized to control, 11 mg/kg/day simvastatin, 30 mg/kg ezetimibe, or the combination and sacrificed 42 days post-randomization. We used a generalized linear model with the predictor variables of treatment, time, and treatment by time (i.e., interaction term) with tumor volume as the outcome variable. Total serum and tumor cholesterol were measured. Tumoral RNA was extracted and cDNA synthesized from 1 ug of total RNA for quantitative real-time PCR. RESULTS: Simvastatin directly reduced in vitro prostate cell proliferation in a dose-dependent, cell line-specific manner, but ezetimibe had no effect. In vivo, low continuous dosing of ezetimibe, delivered by food, or simvastatin, delivered via an osmotic pump had no effect on tumor growth compared to control mice. In contrast, dual treatment of simvastatin and ezetimibe accelerated tumor growth. Ezetimibe significantly lowered serum cholesterol by 15%, while simvastatin had no effect. Ezetimibe treatment resulted in higher tumor cholesterol. A sixfold induction of low density lipoprotein receptor mRNA was observed in ezetimibe and the combination with simvastatin versus control tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Systemic cholesterol lowering by ezetimibe did not slow tumor growth, nor did the cholesterol independent effects of simvastatin and the combined treatment increased tumor growth. Despite lower serum cholesterol, tumors from ezetimibe treated mice had higher levels of cholesterol. This study suggests that induction of low density lipoprotein receptor is a possible mechanism of resistance that prostate tumors use to counteract the therapeutic effects of lowering serum cholesterol. Prostate (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
OBJECTIVE: The signals causing the resolution of muscle inflammation are only partially characterized. The long pentraxin PTX3, which modulates leukocyte recruitment and activation, could contribute. METHODS: We analysed the expression of ptx3 after muscle injury and verified whether hematopoietic precursors are a source of the protein. The kinetics of regeneration and leukocytes infiltration, the accumulation of cell remnants and anti-histidyl-t-RNA synthetase autoantibodies were compared in wild-type and ptx3-deficient mice. RESULTS: Ptx3 expression was up-regulated three-five days after injury and restricted to the extracellular matrix. Cellular debris and leukocytes persisted in the muscle of ptx3-deficient mice for a long time after wild-type animals had healed. ptx3-deficient macrophages expressed receptors involved in apoptotic cell clearance and engulfed dead cells in vitro. Accumulation of cell debris in a pro-inflammatory microenvironment was not sufficient to elicit autoantibodies. CONCLUSION: PTX3 generated in response to muscle injury prompts the clearance of debris and the termination of the inflammatory response.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of the study was to investigate the role of histone deacetylases (HDACs) in adipocyte function associated with obesity and hypoxia. METHODS: Total proteins and RNA were prepared from human visceral adipose tissues (VAT) of human obese and normal weight subjects and from white adipose tissue (WAT) of C57Bl6-Rj mice fed a normal or high fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks. HDAC activity was measured by colorimetric assay whereas the gene and protein expression were monitored by real-time PCR and by western blotting, respectively. RNA interference (RNAi) was used to silence the expression of genes in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. RESULTS: Total HDAC activity was decreased in VAT and WAT from obese individuals and from mice fed a HFD, respectively. The HDAC activity reduction was associated with decreased HDAC5/Hdac5 and HDAC6/Hdac6 expression in human and mice adipocyte fraction. Similarly, hypoxia hampered total Hdac activity and reduced the expression of Hdac5 and Hdac6 in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The decrease of both Hdac5 and Hdac6 by hypoxia was associated with altered expression of adipokines and of the inducible cAMP early repressor (Icer), a key repressor that is defective in human and mice obesity. Silencing of Icer in adipocytes reproduced the changes in adipokine levels under hypoxia and obesity, suggesting a causative effect. Finally, modeling the defect of the two Hdacs in adipocytes by RNAi or selective inhibitors mimicked the effects of hypoxia on the expression of Icer, leading to impairment of insulin-induced glucose uptake. CONCLUSION: Hdac5 and Hdac6 expression are required for the adequate expression of Icer and adipocyte function. Altered adipose expression of the two Hdacs in obesity by hypoxia may contribute to the development of metabolic abnormalities.
MicroRNAs are important genetic regulators in both animals and plants. They have a range of functions spanning development, differentiation, growth, metabolism and disease. The advent of next-generation sequencing technologies has made it a relatively straightforward task to detect these molecules and their relative expression via sequencing. There are a large number of published studies with deposited datasets. However, there are currently few resources that capitalize on these data to better understand the features, distribution and biogenesis of miRNAs. Herein, we focus on Human and Mouse for which the majority of data are available. We reanalyse sequencing data from 461 samples into a coordinated catalog of microRNA expression. We use this to perform large-scale analyses of miRNA function and biogenesis. These analyses include global expression comparison, co-expression of miRNA clusters and the prediction of miRNA strand-specificity and underlying constraints. Additionally, we report for the first time a global analysis of miRNA epi-transcriptomic modifications and assess their prevalence across tissues, samples and families. Finally, we report a list of potentially mis-annotated miRNAs in miRBase based on their aggregated modification profiles. The results have been collated into a comprehensive online repository of miRNA expression and features such as modifications and RNA editing events, which is available at: http://wwwdev.ebi.ac.uk/enright-dev/miratlas We believe these findings will further contribute to our understanding of miRNA function in animals and benefit the miRNA community in general.
JMJD6, a jumonji C (Jmj C) domain-containing protein demethylase and hydroxylase, has been implicated in an array of biological processes. It has been shown that JMJD6 interacts with and hydroxylates multiple serine/arginine-rich (SR) proteins and SR related proteins, including U2AF65, all of which are known to function in alternative splicing regulation. However, whether JMJD6 is widely involved in alternative splicing and the molecular mechanism underlying JMJD6-regulated alternative splicing have remained incompletely understood. Here, by using RASL-Seq, we investigated the functional impact of RNA-dependent interaction between JMJD6 and U2AF65, revealing that JMJD6 and U2AF65 co-regulated a large number of alternative splicing events. We further demonstrated the JMJD6 function in alternative splicing in jmjd6 knockout mice. Mechanistically, we showed that the enzymatic activity of JMJD6 was required for a subset of JMJD6-regulated splicing, and JMJD6-mediated lysine hydroxylation of U2AF65 could account for, at least partially, their co-regulated alternative splicing events, suggesting both JMJD6 enzymatic activity-dependent and independent control of alternative splicing. These findings reveal an intimate link between JMJD6 and U2AF65 in alternative splicing regulation, which has important implications in development and disease processes.
